[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Legends of giants
exist around the world.
And some say they have
even found evidence.
But mainstream science
dismiss giants as a hoax.
Is it time for a fresh
look at ancient giants?
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Giants dismissed by science
and archeology as myth
but embraced by many cultures
around the world globally,
there are even structures that
would fit the giant narrative.
But perhaps, most importantly,
oral histories, folklore,
and even scripture
mentioned giants.
Jack Cary, researcher and
author of "Paranormal Planet,"
has studied this
phenomenon for years.
>> The indigenous people
throughout the entire planet
have these oral histories
of red-haired giants.
And there are a lot of
indications and clues
as to who the giants were
and where they originated.
One of the most
important is Genesis 6:4
in which it describes that
the Nephilim were on Earth.
They had children
by human women.
These children were giants.
Now a lot of us
researchers believe
that when they talk about the
Nephilim and interbreeding
with human women,
they were actually
talking about genetic
manipulation, which
is strongly alluded to
in the Sumerian tablets.
>> If they are so
prevalent around the world,
why have we not
found any evidence?
>> The reason why we've not
found skeletal remains--
around the turn of the
century, the early 1900s,
researchers have discovered
in the neighborhood of 900
newspaper articles all
talking about finding
the remains of giants.
And in many of
them, they describe
having to give the remains to
employees of the Smithsonian.
And people often ask what would
be the motive for covering up
these remains?
The primary part
of the motive was
related to what they
call Manifest Destiny.
Manifest Destiny was
used by European settlers
as a cause or a reason that
they had a divine right
to occupy the land rather than
the indigenous people of North
America, who they
considered savages.
And finding ancient
remains of other people who
had been there from
a long time ago
is something that
probably, they thought,
was going to cause people
to start asking questions
about their divine
right to be in this land
if it had already been conquered
by other people, et cetera.
>> The late 1800s was rife with
snake oil salesmen, grifters,
and conmen.
Journalism at the time wasn't
known for fact checking.
What do you say to people
who believe these skeletons
and stories were fakes?
>> So there is a lot of skeptics
out there about the mystery
of the giants in North America
who think that all of these
articles were actually a
form of what is called yellow
journalism.
There was a practice around that
time where journalists would
sometimes embellish
stories in order to sell
more copies of the newspaper.
However, discovering 900
of them, and all of them
with very exacting details that
seemed to copy one another,
seems highly improbable
that they are all some form
of yellow journalism.
>> What did Native American
oral histories say about
the existence of giants?
>> The Paiute have an ancient
oral history of having a war
with red-headed,
cannibalistic giants.
The tale says that the
giants were cannibals
and that they were stealing
people and eating them.
And this caused a war
between the Paiute
and this race of
red-haired giants.
Eventually they were able
to kill off enough of them
that they cornered the rest
in a famous cave now known
as Lovelock Cave.
And the tale goes that
they built a gigantic fire
at the mouth of the cave
and filled it full of smoke.
And as these red-haired
giants ran from the cave,
they killed them one by one.
They called these
giants the Si-Te-Cah.
Now there was a Paiute
elder and she has a dress.
And she has stated publicly
that this dress, which
she calls a mourning
dress, is literally
woven from the red hair from
the red-haired giants mentioned
around the world.
>> Could the term "giants"
be relative to the size
of the people at the time?
A recent discovery in China
found 5,000-year-old skeletons
that measured around six feet
tall compared to the average
height of 5 foot 5 inches.
Could this be the answer?
Looking across the
Atlantic to the UK,
that may have been the case.
Science and history
writer Andrew Collins.
>> Well it's said that Merlin--
this most famous wizard
of British history--
employed the services of giants.
And they dismantled this
original stone circle
known as the Giants Dance.
And it was with these stones
that they created Stonehenge.
Well, quite clearly, this brings
into question of whether there
existed giants in the past.
And what we can
say is that there
have been a large
number of graves found
in the vicinity of Stonehenge
where oversized individuals
have been found.
Their skeletal remains
have been uncovered.
And these people are anything
up to 7 to 7 and 1/2 feet
in height, telling us that
as far as the ancient British
people-- if they
were much smaller--
then looking at
these individuals,
they would have
considered them giants.
It's possible that these
people who created Stonehenge
were themselves giants.
>> We have seen folklore
and legends join us
in the direction of the truth.
As we continue to
make new discoveries
of our ancient past will
we learn that giants
were real all along?
Does the path to the truth lead
to an institutional cover-up
or was it all just
myth and allegory?
We'll be watching to see what
researchers come up with next.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]